<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

*   [PageObject][1]
    *   [Parameters][2]
    *   [Examples][3]
    *   [element][4]
    *   [elements][5]
*   [selector][6]
    *   [Parameters][7]
    *   [Examples][8]
*   [globalSelector][9]
    *   [Parameters][10]
    *   [Examples][11]
*   [setRoot][12]
    *   [Parameters][13]
*   [assertExists][14]
    *   [Parameters][15]
    *   [Examples][16]
*   [getDescription][17]
    *   [Parameters][18]

## PageObject

**Extends ArrayStub**

This class implements all the basic page object functionality, and all page
objects must inherit from it. It can host [selector][6] and
[globalSelector][9] fields, and will properly instantiate them as nested
[PageObject][1]s when accessed. Each page object represents a DOM query
that matches zero or more [Element][19]s (or subclasses of [Element][19]
\-- see [ElementType][20]).

[PageObject][1]s exist in a tree where each [PageObject][1]'s elements
are descendants of its parent's elements. The root of the tree is a top-level
[PageObject][1] created using `new PageObject()`, that by default will
match the root element (the body element or whatever was set as the root
using [setRoot][12]). It can also be constructed with a selector argument,
`new PageObject(selector)`, in which case its query will be a selector query
starting from the root element. Then each non-root [PageObject][1] has a
selector and optional index that define its elements relative to its parent's
elements.

As long as no page objects have an index, each [PageObject][1]
conceptually appends its selector to its parent's selector, in effect making
its matching elements

```javascript
rootElement.querySelectorAll(`${this.parent.selector} ${this.selector}`);
```

Page objects that do have an index ("indexed page objects") restrict their
matching elements to only the one element at their index within their full
query results (or no elements if there is no element at that index). That in
effect "resets" the root element for its descendants, so its children execute
queries relative to its matching element (if it has one) and so on.

[PageObject][1]s are lazy, meaning that their query is not evaluated when
they are constructed, but is evaluated and re-evaluated each time a property
that depends on it is accessed.

[PageObject][1]s expose an API for interacting with their matching
elements that comprises [PageObject#element][21],
[PageObject#elements][22], and an [Array][23] API that exposes the page
object's matching [ElementType][20]s wrapped in indexed
[PageObject][1]s. The index operator will return an indexed
[PageObject][1] that may or may not match an element (similar to how you
can index off the end of a native array and get `undefined`), while various
array iteration methods like [PageObject#map][24] generate a range of
[PageObject][1]s that reflect only the indices that actually match an
element.

Descendant [PageObject][1]s are defined by subclassing [PageObject][1]
and using the [selector][6] factory function to initialize class fields.

When creating a top-level [PageObject][1] directly using `new`, its query
will match the root element (the body element or whatever was )

### Parameters

*   `selector`  the selector to use for this page object's query (optional, default `''`)
*   `parent`  the element or page object to use as the root of the page
    object's query, defaulting to the global root element (optional, default `null`)
*   `index`  an index to narrow the query to an element at a specific index
    within the query results (optional, default `null`)

### Examples

```javascript
import { PageObject, selector, setRoot } from 'fractal-page-object';

class Page extends PageObject {
  list = selector('.list');
}

setRoot(rootElement);

// rootElement.querySelectorAll('.list')
new Page().list.elements;
// rootElement.querySelectorAll('.container .list')
new Page('.container').list.elements;
// rootElement.querySelectorAll('.container')[0].querySelectorAll('.list')
new Page('.container', null, 0).list.elements;
// document.body.querySelectorAll('.list');
new Page('', document.body).list.elements;
// document.body.querySelectorAll('.container .list');
new Page('.container', document.body).list.elements;
// document.body.querySelectorAll('.container')[1].querySelectorAll('.list');
new Page('.container', document.body, 1).list.elements;
```

### element

This page object's single matching DOM element -- the first DOM element
matching this page object's query if this page object does not have an
index, or the `index`th matching DOM element if it does have an index
specified.

Type: (ElementType | null)

### elements

This page object's list of matching DOM elements. If this page object has
an index, this property will always have a length of 0 or 1.

Type: [Array][23]\<ElementType>

## selector

Define a child PageObject. It can optionally be supplied with a
[PageObject][1] subclass definition to allow customizing functionality on
the page object, such as defining (grand)child page objects, or other helpful
properties and functions.

### Parameters

*   `selector` **[string][25]** the selector relative to the parent node
*   `Class` **[Function][26]<[PageObject][1]>?** optional [PageObject][1] subclass that
    can be used to extend the functionality of this page object

### Examples

```javascript
import { PageObject, selector } from 'fractal-page-object';

class Page extends PageObject {
  list = selector('.list', class extends PageObject {
    items = selector('li');
  });
}
let page = new Page();
page.list.elements; // document.body.querySelectorAll('.list')
page.list.items.elements; // document.body.querySelectorAll('.list li')
```

Returns **[PageObject][1]** a [PageObject][1] or [PageObject][1] subclass
instance

## globalSelector

Define a [PageObject][1] with a global scope, i.e. not scoped by its
parent page object. Useful for cases like popovers and dropdowns, where the
UI control is logically inside a given component, but all or part of it
renders elsewhere in the DOM, such as directly under the body.
[globalSelector][9] accepts a selector and optional custom class like
[selector()][27], but the queries of the page objects it generates will be
executed from the root (`document.body` or whatever was passed to
[setRoot][12]) rather than the parent page object's elements.

In some cases, it makes sense to set up a global root using [setRoot][12],
but some elements might be rendered outside even that, such as directly under
the body. For cases like this, [globalSelector][9] accepts an optional
root element to use as the root of the queries of the page object it
generates.

### Parameters

*   `args` **...any**&#x20;
*   `selector` **[string][25]** the selector
*   `Class` **[Function][26]<[PageObject][1]>** optional [PageObject][1] subclass that
    can be used to extend the functionality of this page object

### Examples

```javascript
import { PageObject, selector, globalSelector } from 'fractal-page-object';

const testContainer = document.querySelector('#test-container');
setRoot(testContainer);

class Page extends PageObject {
  listItems = selector('.list-item', class extends PageObject {
    popover = globalSelector('.popover', class extends PageObject {
      icon = selector('.icon');
    });
  });
}
let page = new Page();
page.listItems[0]; // testContainer.querySelectorAll('.listItems')[0]
page.listItems[0].popover; // testContainer.querySelectorAll('.popover')
page.listItems[0].popover.icon; // testContainer.querySelectorAll('.popover .icon')
```

```javascript
import { setRoot, PageObject, selector, globalSelector } from 'fractal-page-object';

const testContainer = document.querySelector('#test-container');
setRoot(testContainer);

class Page extends PageObject {
  listItems = selector('.list-item', class extends PageObject {
    popover = globalSelector('.popover', document.body, class extends PageObject {
      icon = selector('.icon');
    });
  });
}
let page = new Page();
page.listItems[0]; // testContainer.querySelectorAll('.listItems')[0]
page.listItems[0].popover; // document.body.querySelectorAll('.popover')
page.listItems[0].popover.icon; // document.body.querySelectorAll('.popover .icon')
```

Returns **[PageObject][1]** a [PageObject][1] or [PageObject][1] subclass
instance

## setRoot

Set the global default root element -- by default [PageObject][1]s will
only match elements that are descendants of this element. The default root
element is `document.body`.

### Parameters

*   `element` **([Element][19] | [Function][26])** the root element or a function that will
    return it

## assertExists

Useful for providing clarity to consumers of page-objects
to provide additional context so "can't access property on undefined"
errors do not public up to the consumer.

In typescript, this is also useful for type-narrowing so that
you can pass on the element to other utilities.

### Parameters

*   `msg` **[string][25]** a descriptor for what it could mean when the element doesn't exist
*   `pageObject` **[PageObject][1]** the page object

### Examples

```javascript
let page = new Page();

assertExists('is the element on the page?', page);

await click(page.element);
```

## getDescription

Utility to get the fully resolved selector path of a [PageObject][1]

### Parameters

*   `pageObject` &#x20;

[1]: #pageobject

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #examples

[4]: #element

[5]: #elements

[6]: #selector

[7]: #parameters-1

[8]: #examples-1

[9]: #globalselector

[10]: #parameters-2

[11]: #examples-2

[12]: #setroot

[13]: #parameters-3

[14]: #assertexists

[15]: #parameters-4

[16]: #examples-3

[17]: #getdescription

[18]: #parameters-5

[19]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Element

[20]: ElementType

[21]: #pageobjectelement

[22]: #pageobjectelements

[23]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[24]: PageObject#map

[25]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[26]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[27]: selector\(\)
